[music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts,
radio, news.
>> Do you guys know what today is?
>> It's our 10y year anniversary because
everyone keeps sending us.
>> I know. We only we knew we only knew I
didn't realize that today was the actual
10 year anniversary until I started
getting emails from random people this
morning. I was like, "Oh, happy 10
years." Like, what?
>> Random Bloomberg people, too.
>> I thought I would be the first to
remember.
>> Oh, yeah. [laughter] Sorry, Dad. it in
our hearts. You were the first.
>> Yes. 10 years ago today, the first
episode of Odd Lbox.
>> I do have uh I forget who sent this to
me. I have a mug.
>> U Yeah. So, happy anniversary to us.
>> Happy birthday.
>> What did you get me?
>> I guess this is a little weird. Happy
anniversary to us. Happy birthday to uh
OddLots. Um and uh you know what? Wait,
I didn't get you anything.
>> I know you didn't. [laughter]
I wait I wait with baited breath for a
gift from Joe one of these days.
>> You know what? Um no, that's not true.
I've gotten you a gift. Name one.
>> I always bring back sweets when I
travel. Um, everyone does that. I know.
I guess that doesn't count. You're
right. You know what would be a really
wonderful gift?
>> What?
>> Uh, fresh jobs data.
>> Oh, yes.
[music]
>> I did a dead list.
>> I am both the most popular trader and
most successful trader at Citadel.
>> Feta's going viral.
>> Uh, barges. This is an after school
special except
>> I've decided I'm going to base my entire
personality going forward on campaigning
for a strategic pork reserve in the US.
>> Black gold.
>> These are the the important questions.
Is it robots taking over the world?
>> No, I think that like in a couple years
the AI will do a really good job of
making the OddLots podcast. One day that
person will have the mandate of heaven.
>> How do I get more popular and
successful?
>> We do have
>> the perfect guest. You're listening to
Lots More, where we catch up with
friends about what's going on right now.
>> Because even when The Odd Lots is over,
there's always lots more.
>> And we really do have the perfect guest.
>> I don't know about you guys, but I did
not expect to miss the NFP as much as I
I am at the moment. I just thought, you
know, we have all the alt data, things
will be fine.
>> It doesn't hit the same, does it,
Connor?
>> It does not. I mean [laughter] ADP like
having to care about ADP is just the
worst.
>> You're like all these estimates or
whatever. It's like it just doesn't even
if you know it's coming out it doesn't
hit the same. There's nothing like uh
>> the Chicago Fed estimate of unemployment
like all right Austin Goulsby I like you
but [laughter] not not the same. Well,
wait.
>> We got to get him on here. And
>> okay, so the one upside of not having
the official data, the official jobs
data because of the government shutdown
is everyone gets to be really mean about
the alt data, right? And say like really
harsh things about why they don't like
ADP. But could someone just remind me
why we hate ADP?
>> Oh yeah. What's wrong with it, Connor?
>> I mean, it's always they revise it to
the BLS data. So it's like here's our
estimate and then 6 months later you
revise it. So then the historical data
looks fine, but in the moment it's
actually not the same at all.
>> It's interesting because you know people
always say like ADP, oh it missed again,
but it is a little weird and it gets to
I think some philosophical things which
aren't necessarily worth diving into for
a conversation about what does it even
mean to be right or wrong. I mean NFP
gets revised all the time. NFP is just a
model for the real economy. You know,
little confusing the map and the
territory stuff. Anyway, when people are
listening to this, it should have been
jobs day and so I don't really think
there's going to be a report unless
somehow the government gets hope. I
don't think that's uh happening.
>> This is our gift to OddLotss listeners.
In celebration of our 10y year
anniversary, we are bringing you this
labor market episode of uh Lotsmore
brought to you by OddLots and and it's a
poor substitute perhaps, but it's the
best that we can do.
>> So this morning there was a headline
challenger which has never been a
particularly like topshelf data point
for me. like they said the worst month
for layoffs in 20 years. On the other
hand, an initial claims have been
steady. Uh also there was a headline
from U. Cleveland Fed's hammock. She's
more concerned about inflation than
employment right now in terms of risk to
the dual mandate. Connor, you've sort of
pretty taking the opposite view. You
think the labor market situation is
pretty serious and urgent, maybe
underappreciated as a risk. You probably
disagree with uh
>> we've had this low hires low fires labor
market for at least 18 to 24 months now.
And I think we have evidence over the
past few months that at least there's no
reason for low fires to still be
happening in corporate America. They
don't have to hoard labor because if
nothing else, if you really want to
hire, there's plenty of young people.
There's plenty of long-term unemployed
people to hire. Unemployment rates kind
of low, but there's plenty of slack out
there to hire people. So to the extent
that like Amazon has shown the way of we
don't need to hold on to our co workers
anymore that could give permission to
other companies to do the same and at a
time when everybody's trying to cut
costs that could snowball a little bit.
>> Wait so just going back to the ADP data
for a second. So sorry I hate to do this
but according to ADP payrolls were up
>> we're going to get a call from ADP.
They're going to want to come on and
defend which is fine. Well, I'm I'm
trying to get to some of the tension
here. But, okay, jobs up 42,000 for
October and then we get the challenger
data for that same month and as Joe
said, it's like the worst job cuts in 20
years. I think over 150,000 cut. Why
does it seem like we are getting these
two very different streams of
[clears throat] jobs data at the moment
where we do have some alternative data
points that are coming in better than
expected and then we have some that are
just coming in that look almost I don't
want to say depression level but like
certainly worse than it feels at the
moment.
>> Well, the way the challenger data works
is it's announced layoffs. So that could
be anything from UPS saying we've laid
off 50,000 people over the past 12
months or announced job cuts that
haven't happened yet. So they're just
headlines, not actual job cuts that
month.
>> Oh, I see. Okay. So it's aggregating
just people saying stuff and we're still
not entirely sure whether or not
>> headline aggregation, not confirmed
layoffs that month.
>> What do we know about initial claims?
>> So the initial claims are still pretty
low. I think one thing we're dealing
with right now is that the
year-over-year is incorporating the the
hurricane Hela situation from last year.
So if you remember that was end of
September. Then you saw claims in North
Carolina and Florida and the southeast
as people were, you know, there was
flooding and so companies were closed
for a while. So you saw a spike in
claims in October. So we're kind of
lapping that period. And so to the
extent that the year-over-years don't
look bad right now, that could be
partially a hurricane impact.
>> Do you have like a shadow NFP figure in
your mind that you're working on?
>> For me, it's just sort of I don't think
jobs are really growing in the aggregate
right now. Certainly ex healthcare. And
so to the extent that we think corporate
earnings are going to grow 10% over the
next 12 months, how do you grow earnings
10% if there's no job growth? It just
seems like you need a real productivity
miracle or some sort of compositional
dynamic to get there. If the labor
market is substantially weakening, we
are going to revisit the cyclical versus
structural debate. Except this time the
structural argument would be that it has
something to do with AI. And if the call
and that if AI is driving job loss,
which I'm not really convinced by, but
if AI is dropping driving job loss, then
rate cuts aren't going to do much. Like
what is Yeah,
>> can I give you my conundrum of what I
think is going on? I think about Craig
Fuller and precommodity markets and all
the supply chain episodes you guys did
>> and I think about there sort of the
contracted rate of like promotions and
jobs that people got in 2022, home
prices people committed to in 2022 and
then like the spot market which is
long-term unemployed young people
>> resale housing inventory. And I feel
like the spot market wants to get back
to 2019 affordability and then the
contracted market wants to stay at 2022
prices. And there's this really growing
tension between the two as as the spot
market's trying to drag down the
contracted market so to speak.
>> So to understand this to maybe the way
to think about this is that there is a
seat that a company has
a role and the person sitting in that
seat might be taking in $150,000
currently. But if that seat were open
and they had to hire for it, maybe it
would only be they could hire for that
role for 100,000 or 90,000 or 110,000.
And thus the gap between contract and
spot,
>> right? And I think, you know, it's you
think about like a bank analyst [snorts]
program where you hire a bunch of 21
year olds. Maybe they were making
$100,000 in 2020 and then that that got
raised at 150 in 2022 because the job
market was so strong. Those analysts
then become associates and then there's
kind of an expectation they're going to
leave for business school or private
equity or whatever, but because the
labor market's so bad, they don't want
to leave. and they might be perfectly
fine people, but at some point you're
like, "Well, we need to kind of kick you
out to make room for the next 21 year
olds." Almost like if a college like
University of Texas, if the seniors were
like, "We're not leaving cuz the job
market's [laughter] weak. We're just
going to stay." And at some point, Texas
is like, "Well, we have freshmen that
need beds. You have to leave."
>> Yeah.
>> And I worry we're kind of getting there.
>> There's a whole movie about Ryan
Reynolds trying to stay at university
because of a lackluster job market, I
presume. Anyway, the other thing that
everyone seems to be debating at the
moment is the impact of immigration or
lack thereof on the total labor market
and what that means for supply. And
depending on where you come out on this
particular debate, you might have very
different impressions of what's going on
at the moment. What side of it are you
sort of landing on?
>> I think it's fair to say that the break
even jobs rate is much lower. Like maybe
it's 30,000. Um but also supply kind of
generates demand as well. And I think
you can look at housing to show that. Um
I don't know if he'll appreciate me
calling him out, but Lee Everett, who
you've had on to talk about multif
family a couple times. I asked him, do
you think that reduced immigration is is
hurting multif family performance?
Because Q3 was pretty soft for
apartments. And his view is it's not
like undocumented migrants are living in
class A and class B apartments, but if
you don't have population growth, you
don't need job growth. And if you don't
have job growth, you don't need to sign
an apartment lease. So it might not be
directly leading to weakness and and
whatever, but it's sort of that demand
weakness is showing up elsewhere in in
housing, in consumer staples, things
like that.
>> Let's get back to the AI question. Do
you think it's playing some role in cuts
because yeah, I'll leave it at that.
>> I think in two ways, yes, I don't think
it's that the technology is displacing
workers, but I think that companies are
first cost constrained and they feel
like they have to invest in AI. So, if
you have to increase your your budget
somewhere, you've got to cut it
somewhere else. And labor is a good way
to do that. And then I just think the
vibes in general of well, if you're
hiring a bunch of people, you're
probably a loser that doesn't get AI.
And so, you can't look like a loser, so
you're just not doing it.
>> Yeah. This is what I worry about with
the optics, which is if there are a
bunch of companies recently who have
seen their share prices go down. And
we're recording this at lunchtime, so
all the food ones are on my mind. But
for instance, McDonald's, Chipotle,
right, came out with disappointing
earnings and shares are going down. If
you're a company watching your stock
price go down, you're thinking about the
levers you can pull to make it go up in
the future. Price increases probably
aren't going to work when everyone's
already complaining that, you know, a
cheeseburger and fries over at
McDonald's are like more than $10 now.
But one thing you can do is say, "Well,
we're going to cut workers." And by
cutting workers, look at us. we really
understand AI and we're in on like the
current trend or craze.
>> Something McDonald's did 18 months ago
is they finally when everything was
slumping in 23 and 24, their comp sales
in the US went negative
>> and they had this big earnings call
saying, "We've always prided oursel on
value. Our value gap versus our peers
has really compressed, but we are going
to win at value whatever it takes."
Almost like a draggy moment for us fast
[laughter] food. And they introduced
this $5 value meal. this they caught MCV
value their new program that they
launched earlier this year and they've
really clawed that value gap back and so
it's sort of like they're going to claim
their market share and then everybody
else is going to lose traffic to
McDonald's and so I think they're kind
of fine but everybody and it kind of
gets to that contracted versus spot
economy framework where McDonald's got
back to where they need to be everybody
else isn't there and they're all trying
to figure out how do we deal with this
environment where demand is weak and
consumers are very price pressured
>> I want to say Joe I have yet to
experience the um rebound of value at
McDonald's. I I had a uh moment of
weakness on Monday and I did
>> and it was costly.
>> It was costly. I went through the
drive-thru. I didn't use the app, so
that was probably the problem. But like
it is not nothing to get a meal from
McDonald's nowadays.
>> When do my favorite thing is uh whenever
like a sector comes up, I start like
pulling up stock charts on the terminal.
Sweet green, that was a $45 stock last
November. This is maybe the biggest
Trump loser. It was $44. Now it's a $6
stock. Cava
was a
$150
stock also in late 2024. Now it's a $47
stock. I mean, these are like, you know,
these are the tip of the sphere, the
most cutting edge slot bowls you can
get. And they're
>> Yeah. I feel like if you were the kind
of person working for like Shaw's
group and like eating lunch in DC, the
kinds of things you're eating, that's
like in a bad recession now. Those types
of workers.
>> I do. Yeah. I mean, that's not funny.
It's a It's true. I also Tracy like when
I I love our DC listeners so I don't
want to insult people in DC but when I
think of like what is the city which I'm
certain has the highest percentage of
people that sort of eat a bowl lunch I
always think in terms of the workforce
it must be DC and I do
>> actually founded and Sweet Green both
Cava and Sweet Green are like this is
true innovation serving the local market
and so I do think it's interesting that
DC is an industrial hotbed for these
kind of lunches
>> I'll just say I see a lot of sad salad
eaters uh here in New York, including
Joe. But I am willing to say that Cava
and Sweet Green are certainly that sort
of um I guess liberal bureaucratic
government official um coded
>> your meal. Yeah, your rations.
>> They are. Yeah, they are. Here's your
bowl of salad.
>> Oh man.
>> Well, and you're hearing like Chipotle
talked about weakness among 25 to 35
year olds, not just 20 to 24 year olds.
So it does seem like that weakness is
kind of creeping up the income scale,
the age ladder, and you know, maybe the
AMX consumer is still fine, but it just
seems like the weakness is moving up the
income curve.
[music]
>> We were actually talking about the labor
market, and I know this is related, but
one one thing that kind of worries me at
the moment is that
Even if the government opens up tomorrow
and NFP gets released soon after that,
it feels like it's just going to be
messy. And even if we get the official
number, it's not actually going to be
that insightful and we're still going to
be spending all our time having the
debates that we're having right now.
>> I think we're not going to have a clean
read on the data until at least January
just because October is gonna be a mess.
Who knows when we're going to get the
data. Then even if the government
reopens then you have the November data
is impacted by the shutdown which so
>> yeah we're kind of just twiddling our
thumbs until your end.
>> So let's talk about you know let's put
it in the stakes for the Fed. If you
were the Fed chair which you know you
probably play fantasy Fed chair in your
mind.
>> There's a nonzero chance that Connor
could one day
>> or certain [laughter] Yeah. certainly a
governor. Um well like what what do you
like is there an effective move here? Is
the is it keep cutting rates and how
effective would they be? Play it out
from the Fed framework. What I think
they're thinking is that we keep missing
on inflation. We don't know if tariffs
are going to lead to une unanchanchored
inflation expectations. Even though they
don't take the stock market into
account, I do think on some vibes level
if the stock market's high, that doesn't
force their hand. And they they're
really anchoring to the unemployment
rate is historically low, which kind of,
but again, if you look at the long-term
unemployment numbers, age 2024, kind of
that spot labor market uh groups, that's
actually quite weak. That's more of like
a 2015 type labor market. And I just
think they don't want to do anything
until their hand is forced. But again,
for me, I see housing getting worse.
We've the Fed's cut rates 150 basis
points and housing is worse now than it
was a year and a half ago. So I think
the whole when the Fed cuts rates,
housing's going to be fixed has not
proven to be true. And the labor market
doesn't seem to be getting better yet.
So outside of AI, it's just hard to see
any upward momentum heading into 2026.
If you were at the Fed dealing with an
AI economy versus the economy of 10
years ago, let alone 30 or 40 years ago,
but let's say 10 years ago, does that
make you think about monetary policy and
the transmission mechanism different at
all? Joe kind of got at this earlier,
but
>> yeah, it's I think, you know, we all
live through the mid-200s and then the
the bust and the bailouts, and it's
like, should the Fed have prevented
OpenAI from making these commitments?
Should the Fed have prevented Nvidia
from doing vendor finance on the scale
they have? Maybe we'll say in hindsight,
yes. But like in the moment, which is
right now, come on. Like that's not
going to happen. So, I'm a little more
sympathetic now to the Fed being blind
to certain things in the boom,
especially when it's sort of outside of
their their mandate just because
>> it's
>> right. They're not AI regulators.
>> No. Exactly. And it's also with with
Trump, it's not like they're going to be
telling Sam Alman he can't do what he's
doing. So, I feel like they're going to
probably have a role in the cleanup, but
in the moment there's not a whole lot
they can do.
>> It's funny that we're already like
projecting it so far forward, but it is
I mean this is and I really want to do
more on this. I think the politics of AI
are going to be huge in 2028 and I
expect I don't know I it's very
plausible to me that the AI industry at
the same time is a very big deal in the
US touch and sort of friendless in DC.
It seems very plausible. Seems very
plausible to me that in 2028 the story
is most people again 2028 it's a
lifetime from now in both politics and
technology but it could be a story where
it's like here's this thing it's really
important or there's tons of investment
in it but people for the most part
either mostly see it as a job killer
slash an electricity price booster and
there are some you know the stakes are
going to be very high and I expect sort
of like especially on the republic Repan
primary. I would expect I would expect
the Democrats to sort of be more
comfortable. Their antagonism towards
big tech has obviously been, you know,
several years. I think it's going to be
some interesting divisions on the GOP
side in terms of which lanes and I think
there is going to be an AI lane or an
anti-aline AI lane. You already see
Ronda Santis, he's been tweeting a lot
about this. I think that's very telling.
Well, it's also in 2024, the the MAGA
coalition was kind of workingass voters
of all races and ethnicities and then
tech and VC. Yeah.
>> And it's just hard to see how their
interests are truly aligned on AI.
>> Let's talk a little bit more just about
the the job market right now. Like, you
know, let's say we were getting data
like do you think, you know, some rule
like we're in sort of a it's sort of
come down, but how close do you think we
are to the snowball? Like how urgent,
how far behind do you think the Fed
could get here? I remember when
Liberation Day happened and people were
wondering how bad it was going to get.
And my thought was that companies don't
like to change their capex plans in
April and May. They're going to try to
get through the end of the year and then
figure out 2026 and Q4.
>> Yeah.
>> And as they're doing that right now,
it's hard to think that they're going to
feel like we need outside of AI like we
need to step up investment and hiring.
>> We feel really good about 2026 when the
government's shut down and share prices
going down.
>> Exly. So, I worry a bit that it's like
we we all freaked out in April and May
and then it was kind of fine for 6
months and then now is when people are
going to make their investment in
spending plans for next year and those
are going to come in lower than they did
a year ago and we're going to start to
see that show up in Q1. So, I don't
think it's a next week, next month
thing, but you know, could the
unemployment rate go certainly into the
high fours? Yes. And I think we probably
will get there. Does it get beyond that?
I don't know. But I just think 3 to six
months from now it's still going to be
worse than it is today. How concerned
are you about like um just while we're
here and have you some of the first
brands treeore some of these dodgy
credits you know Jamie Diamond used
cockroaches right like you know what
what's your sense I
>> I feel like the whole private asset
thing is that it was small in 2008 so
there weren't really any problems there
and then in the early 2010s you had Zerp
and then very cheap assets and they had
a great decade of performance based on
that and then the asset class kind of
just kept getting bigger just because
like I don't know if there's a real
fundamental reason for it. It just
became like a thing that institutions
do. And so it's like are they really
underwriting very well? Like you look at
the stock prices of a firm and uh upwork
or all these like AI fintech lenders are
getting destroyed. And you've had um
that that's the treating guy talked
about Blue Owl. It's just hard to think
underwriting is really really great
right now. And so if if that if anything
worsens in the economy, I assume that
those guys are going to be in trouble.
>> The Blue Owl thing is worth worth uh
talking about more. And I think we have
an episode coming up that will touch on
that. Um,
>> you know what I should say?
>> We've been speaking with Bloomberg
opinion columnist Connor S.
>> Oh yes, [laughter] that's very
important.
>> I wanted to make sure I knew there was
one more thing I wanted to get in the
conversation and so I wanted to
establish who the guest we are actually
talking to was. I guess
>> Connor send person with nonzero chance
of becoming fed chair.
>> Non-zero chance of becoming fed chair.
>> You said that. That's [clears throat]
that's the real title.
>> That's the real title.
>> We should leave it there. We should go.
So, I kind of want McDonald's again,
which is bad.
>> It's lunch time.
>> Lots more is produced by Carmen
Rodriguez and Dashel Bennett with help
from Moses Andom and Kale Brooks.
>> Our sound engineer is Blake Maples. Sage
Bowman is the head of Bloomberg
podcasts.
>> Please rate, review, and subscribe to
OddLots and lots more on your favorite
podcast platforms. And remember that
Bloomberg subscribers can listen to all
our podcasts ad free by connecting
through Apple Podcasts. Thanks for
listening.